---
layout: post
title: TinyCI 0.4 released
---

TinyCI 0.4 is out and as you might expect from the version number there are some new features. 

* New configuration format
* Command interpolation
* `after_all` hook

More info in the rest of the post...

<!-- more -->

### New configuration format

You now have the option of a terser format for `.tinyci.yml`.

This:

    build: blah
    test: blah
    hooks:
      after_test_success: blah
      
Will be automatically transformed (internally) to this:

    builder:
      class: ScriptBuilder
      config:
        command: blah
    tester:
      class: ScriptTester
      config:
        command: blah
    hooker:
      class: ScriptHooker
      config:
        after_test_success: blah

A huge improvement I'm sure you'll agree, especially since the `Script` classes are currently the only ones available anyway.

Note that the new config format is a superset of the old one: configuration in the verbose format continues to work the same.

### Command Interpolation

You can now use ERB syntax to insert values into your build, test and hook commands at runtime. Let's look at [FML's `.tinyci.yml` file](https://github.com/JonnieCache/fml/blob/master/.tinyci.yml) as an example:

    build: VERSION=<%= commit %> docker-compose build --force-rm test
    test: VERSION=<%= commit %> docker-compose run --rm test
    hooks:
      after_test_success: VERSION=<%= commit %> docker-compose build app
      after_all: rm -rf <%= export %>#; docker rmi fml:<%= commit %>-test
      
Here, in the build stage we're building the test service from the docker compose file. The commit hash is passed in as an environment variable and is used to tag the docker image.
For the test stage, we run that same docker image to test the app.
In the hooks, we're building the production version of the image once we know the build passes the tests. After everything's finished, we delete the test docker image, as well as the exported copy of the app sourcetree.

This way we are left with only working docker images in the local index.

### `after_all` hook

As you might imagine, this hook is executed after everything else. It's guaranteed to execute whether or not any stage has failed. 
